README.md, before:

# WSTools Download, Install, and Configuration

![alt text](https://wstools.dev/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/20200821-WSTools-Logo-small.jpg "WSTools PowerShell Module logo")

## Feedback

Please **_[submit feedback](https://wstools.dev/contact "WSTools Feedback")_** about any issues here. Also, submit feedback if you have comments, suggestions, or would like to contribute to the development of WSTools.

## Prerequisites

1. **PowerShell:** version 2 for most functions but some individual functions require version 3 or version 5. Some plans have been made to add some functions that require version 7. Check your version of PowerShell by entering the following command: **`$host`**
Then look at the _`Version`_ attribute.
2. **Active Directory PowerShell module:** Not needed for everything but is necessary for 30+ functions.
3. **NetIQ DRA PowerShell REST Extensions:** Not needed for many functions at the moment but there are plans to add more.
4. **Local Admin Password Solution (LAPS):** Actual module name: AdmPwd.PS. There are a handful of functions that require the full install of LAPS to get the module and not just the basic install. However, if you are not using LAPS on your network then there are no worries.
5. **Microsoft.Exchange.Management.PowerShell.Admin PSSnapin:** Required for the very few Exchange server related functions.

## Download WSTools

> Intended only for Windows computers at this time. Some functions may work on other OS's though.

### Azure DevOps

1. On the left side, click on the **Repos** menu item.
2. On the right side next to the Clone button, click on the **More actions** (three dots) button and select **Download as Zip**.

### GitHub

1. Click on the Green Code button with the down arrow.
2. Select Download ZIP.
3. Change the name of the file from WSTools-master.zip to WSTools.zip.

## After downloading  to computer

1. Uncompress the WSTools.zip file.
2. Make available globally or just for single user.

### Global

Copy the WSTools folder to **C:\Program Files\WindowsPowerShell\Modules**
> Requires admin rights.

### User only

Copy the WSTools folder to **C:\Users\\_USERNAME_\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Modules**
> If the folder already exists or you get a message saying _"The destination has # files with the same names."_ you can either delete the folder that already exists *(prefered)* or you can *Replace the files in the destination*

## Initial changes to make after copying to computer

General Configuration

1. Open PowerShell (after WSTools has been added to one of the locations above)
2. Type the following command and then press Enter. In the file that opens you will need to update the values so they work on your network.
    **```Set-WSToolsConfig```**
    > Recommend copying this file (config.ps1) to another location after you modify it so if you download a newer version of WSTools you can just paste the config file back unless there are changes in the config file.

Remote installation of .msu files and a select few other things:

1. Open WSTools Module Path (typically _C:\Program Files\WindowsPowerShell\Modules\WSTools_ or _C:\Users\USERNAME\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Modules\WSTools_) then edit InstallRemote.ps1.
2. On Line 1 of InstallRemote.ps1 change the value of $PatchFolderPath to the directory on remote computers you store windows updates. This is predefined as "C:\Patches".

## Visual Studio Code setup

For adding the Visual Studio Code PowerShell Snippets do the following:

1. Open PowerShell (after WSTools has been added to one of the locations above)
2. Type the following command:
    **```Set-PowerShellJSON```**

**_or_**

1. Open the WSTools folder (typically _C:\Program Files\WindowsPowerShell\Modules\WSTools_ or _C:\Users\USERNAME\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Modules\WSTools_).
2. Cut and paste powershell.json to **%AppData%\Roaming\Code\User\Snippets** directory.

**_or_**

1. Open powershell.json (located in the WSTools module folder) and copy the text then in VSCode Command Palette (Ctrl + Shift + P)
2. Type **Snippet** and select **Preferences: Configure User Snippets**.
3. Type **PowerShell** then press **Enter**.
4. Select **powershell.json**.
5. Paste the copied text between the { } brackets and save the file.

Commit message:

Feedback now Issues and updated link for reporting

README.md, after:

# WSTools Download, Install, and Configuration

![alt text](https://wstools.dev/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/20200821-WSTools-Logo-small.jpg "WSTools PowerShell Module logo")

## Issues

Please **_[Open an issue](https://github.com/WanderingStag/WSTools/issues "WSTools Issues")_** if there are any problems or requests.

## Prerequisites

1. **PowerShell:** version 2 for most functions but some individual functions require version 3 or version 5. Some plans have been made to add some functions that require version 7. Check your version of PowerShell by entering the following command: **`$host`**
Then look at the _`Version`_ attribute.
2. **Active Directory PowerShell module:** Not needed for everything but is necessary for 30+ functions.
3. **NetIQ DRA PowerShell REST Extensions:** Not needed for many functions at the moment but there are plans to add more.
4. **Local Admin Password Solution (LAPS):** Actual module name: AdmPwd.PS. There are a handful of functions that require the full install of LAPS to get the module and not just the basic install. However, if you are not using LAPS on your network then there are no worries.
5. **Microsoft.Exchange.Management.PowerShell.Admin PSSnapin:** Required for the very few Exchange server related functions.

## Download WSTools

> Intended only for Windows computers at this time. Some functions may work on other OS's though.

### Azure DevOps

1. On the left side, click on the **Repos** menu item.
2. On the right side next to the Clone button, click on the **More actions** (three dots) button and select **Download as Zip**.

### GitHub

1. Click on the Green Code button with the down arrow.
2. Select Download ZIP.
3. Change the name of the file from WSTools-master.zip to WSTools.zip.

## After downloading  to computer

1. Uncompress the WSTools.zip file.
2. Make available globally or just for single user.

### Global

Copy the WSTools folder to **C:\Program Files\WindowsPowerShell\Modules**
> Requires admin rights.

### User only

Copy the WSTools folder to **C:\Users\\_USERNAME_\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Modules**
> If the folder already exists or you get a message saying _"The destination has # files with the same names."_ you can either delete the folder that already exists *(prefered)* or you can *Replace the files in the destination*

## Initial changes to make after copying to computer

General Configuration

1. Open PowerShell (after WSTools has been added to one of the locations above)
2. Type the following command and then press Enter. In the file that opens you will need to update the values so they work on your network.
    **```Set-WSToolsConfig```**
    > Recommend copying this file (config.ps1) to another location after you modify it so if you download a newer version of WSTools you can just paste the config file back unless there are changes in the config file.

Remote installation of .msu files and a select few other things:

1. Open WSTools Module Path (typically _C:\Program Files\WindowsPowerShell\Modules\WSTools_ or _C:\Users\USERNAME\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Modules\WSTools_) then edit InstallRemote.ps1.
2. On Line 1 of InstallRemote.ps1 change the value of $PatchFolderPath to the directory on remote computers you store windows updates. This is predefined as "C:\Patches".

## Visual Studio Code setup

For adding the Visual Studio Code PowerShell Snippets do the following:

1. Open PowerShell (after WSTools has been added to one of the locations above)
2. Type the following command:
    **```Set-PowerShellJSON```**

**_or_**

1. Open the WSTools folder (typically _C:\Program Files\WindowsPowerShell\Modules\WSTools_ or _C:\Users\USERNAME\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Modules\WSTools_).
2. Cut and paste powershell.json to **%AppData%\Roaming\Code\User\Snippets** directory.

**_or_**

1. Open powershell.json (located in the WSTools module folder) and copy the text then in VSCode Command Palette (Ctrl + Shift + P)
2. Type **Snippet** and select **Preferences: Configure User Snippets**.
3. Type **PowerShell** then press **Enter**.
4. Select **powershell.json**.
5. Paste the copied text between the { } brackets and save the file.
